# Chalice-Helper
Chalice Helper is a GUI-based application designed to allow users to easily view and edit form data from output files generated by Chalice, a bioinformatics analysis tool developed by Horizon Discovery Ltd. Chalice Helper was developed in 2017 at Pfizer La Jolla. 

## Purpose
Chalice Helper was designed to address an issue with output files generated by the logging and analysis tool Chalice. The issue in question was the errors made by researchers in manually entering metadata relating to their experiments into Chalice (e.g. typos, missing fields, invalid metadata, etc). The researchers were expected to log their experiments using Chalice before exporting said logs in the form of text files and delivering them to those researchers responsible for statistical analysis. Due to the large number of researchers involved, the lack of standardization, and human error, many of these log files contained metadata that prevented the associated experiment data from being integrated with the rest. Chalice Helper allowed a user to view the data and metadata of many of these log files simultaneously, quickly identify errors in entered data, and either fix the errors or facilitate the user in reporting the errors to those that made them.

## Input Specifications
Chalice Helper was designed to work with output files generated by Chalice, which had a specific format. Each file contained one or more sets of data and metadata relating to a particular experiment, referred to in the context of this application as "entries". Each entry consisted of a set number of lines containing the metadata associated with the experiment, followed by a variable number of lines containing the data of the experiment itself. An output file could contain multiple entries. Chalice Helper required files to be in the proper format and and to be in the same directory as the application was being run.

## Implementation
Upon launching, Chalice Helper scans the text files in the directory and attempts to extract and organize the data they contain. Each file is parsed and the data relating to each entry is grouped into separate class objects. A class object associated with each file is created to contain that file's entries. The objects associated with the files are contained in a class object associated with the directory that contains all the relevant files. 

After the files have been parsed, a GUI (created using the Python Tkinter interface) will display the parsed files to the user. The user may then select a file and view the data contained within it, which is displayed in a summarized format. In this way, the user may quickly see the values that have been entered for the data and metadata of the file's entries. If the user identifies erroneous values, they may quickly select those entries that contain those values. The user may edit the data of an entry or entries to address the error, and the corresponding files will be immediately updated. The user may also export a text file containing the summarized entry data in the event that they wish to seek clarification from the researcher that entered the data. 
